Hello and welcome to this art Tauriel in your section you already introduced to nonlinear regression
models the polynomial regression model and your regression model.
And today we're going to introduce a new non-linear regression model which is the decision tree regression
model.
So for the best of all we had for a data set and our specific problem was the polynomial regression
Let's see how Decision Tree regression will do.
And compared to the previous ones.
So let's start with the basics.
Let's set the right for there is working directories.
Right now I'm going to the regression folder and we are now in Decision Tree regression on who's getting
to the end.
So this is the right folder containing the position services the file make sure of that and it becomes
more of a set as working directory.
All good and now let's take a regression template to build this model efficiently.
So we take everything from here to here and pasting it here.
Right and now we just need to change a few things so let's change the basics let's replace your regression
will by Decision Tree regression.
All right.
We're going to copy that and put that same title here.
Visualizing the decision true aggression results.
And same here.
All right.
And now let's change the most important thing which is the part where we create our repressor so I'm
going to remove that come into line here.
And now let's build our decision tree regression model.
So it's going to be the same thing as any time we're going to import a package and then use a function
from this package to build our aggressor.
So this package for this is an aggression and all will be the our park package.
For those of you who don't have the our part package in your packages here I will type this command
line so that you can install it.
So as you can see mine is already here are part.
Just check if you have it.
And if you don't have it just type here.
Install packages and then in the parenthesis in quotes you type the name of the package which is our
part.
All right.
Then you just select this line executes.
And this one stealth package.
All right but I'm going to put this line as comment.
Just press command for shift.
And now let's also add this line library and in parenthesis the name of the package we want to select
.
Well import our part right.
And as you can see our part is not selected here.
And when this line of code will be executed then this will be selected here.
All right and now we are ready to start building the model.
So as I just said we're going to take a function from this.
Our part library and this function is actually our part as well.
So let's use this function and as usual we're going to call every aggressor regressors.
So here it is.
So that's our decision tree regression regrind sir.
And let's not use the our parts function.
All right so now let's see what arguments we need to input.
The best way to do that is to press one here so that we get the info about the our part library.
So usually we have it here but then we just need to click on this link here and that will give us info
about this arbor library.
OK.
So let's see what we have.
The first argument is formula.
So you know what to do here.
We just need to write formula equals the dependent variable then a Tilda and then a dot that represents
all your independent variables.
All right but that we know perfectly then data.
So data is the data set on which we want to build our decision tree regression model.
So since we did not build any training set data is going to be the data set exactly like polynomial
regression and as regression.
All right then weights is an optional arguments you can add some weights to make your model more advanced
.
But you know this is more advanced that we will not cover that right now.
And then you have some other arguments that are optional but that can help you make your model even
more robust.
Or you know include some regularisation techniques or zation to prevent overfitting that sort of things
.
But right now we just want to build a simple this isn't true at all because we have a simple data set
and so we only need formula and data.
So let's go back to our and let's put these arguments.
So the first argument was formula and then as I mentioned it's formula equals salary because it's our
dependent variable than Tilda just pressing.
And here and then a dot or actually level.
But you know I want to make this script that can be also applied to your data sets.
So I'll use a dot.
All right.
So that's the first argument.
Now let's give the second one the second one was data the data equals data set.
And now our regressors ready to be built only with these two arguments.
Very simple.
Let's do it.
So it's really the be all.
And that means our code is ready to be executed because we don't need to change anything more.
So let's execute the sections one by one and let's see what happens with decision tree regression.
So I'm going to select the first section executes days that's one important.
Here it is.
So the independent variable contains 10 levels here and the dependent variable contains 10 salary's
here associated to these 10 levels here.
And our goal is to predict the salary of a 6.5 level.
The data is not linearly distributed.
This is not a linear problem.
So that's why we're making some non linear regression models to make this prediction right.
So there's no need to split the data sets into a training set in a test.
And because as you can see this is a very small data set then no need for features getting because for
decision trees we don't need to do any feature scaling because the way this model is built is based
on conditions on the independent variable and not on Euclidean distances.
So we're fine with that.
We definitely don't need to plan features scanning.
And we can move on to the next step which is to create our models so let's create it executing.
All right.
Perfect regressors is created.
And now let's get our final verdict.
OK so hard in the UK according to this person and now let's see the predicted salary according to our
model.
So executing this and we get a two hundred forty nine thousand dollars while much higher than the salary
mentioned by this person.
But let's not drop hasty conclusions and let's see what's happening on the graph here.
So I'm going to select all this and let's see what's happening with the decision tree regression results
.
All right that's what I thought.
OK.
So we don't need to zoom it.
We clearly see what's happening here.
It's flooding a straight horizontal line exactly like we saw in SVR with for Python.
For those of you who didn't follow the pricing tutorial know that we already encountered this situation
when we get a straight horizontal line.
And actually as we are.
This was due to the fact that we didn't apply features scaling to our dataset.
So what do you think the problem is here.
Do you think it's due to the fact that we didn't apply features skin like as we are and we need to act
like you're just going to get a model fitting properly the data set.
Well as I mentioned in the beginning of this to toile we definitely don't need to apply features going
into decision trees because Decision Tree regression models are based on conditions on the variables
that has nothing to do with Euclidean distances.
And you know when we need to if you're just getting it's because the machine only models are based on
Euclidean distances and we need to put all the independent variables in the same scale so that one independent
variable is not dominating another one.
But this is not the problem here.
This is not about future scanning.
You can try to apply features skinning here and we execute this but you'll get the same problem with
a straight horizontal line.
And of course this is actually the decision tree model.
This is actually one model of decision tree but this is of course not the best version of decision tree
regression we want to get.
So can you start seeing what's the problem here and especially after watching the intuition tutorial
made by Kiril Can you spot the problem.
I'm going to tell you this problem is related to the number of splits because you know the way to dition
true aggression more was made is that it's making some splits based on different conditions so the more
conditions you have in your own variables the more you have splits.
And here we clearly have no place here because you know all the predictions are equal to two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars.
So you know it took all the different salaries for the different 10 levels here and made an average
and just gave the average for all the levels.
So no conditions here no split and therefore that's absolutely not interesting especially for the potential
that this country can have.
So what we'll do now is add a parameter here that will set a condition on the splits.
You know that's what I was telling you.
We have several parameters in this Arbre library and we can use these optional parameters to improve
our model and make it more robust.
Well this is exactly what we're going to do now.
We are going to get back to our parts.
I'm going to press one here.
Actually this time our party is showing up.
OK.
So great.
Our board is here.
And as I mentioned our part has several parameters that we can use to make a much more robust and the
one we're interested in right now is one parameter that will correct this problem we had with this place
.
So this parameter is actually the control parameter.
And right now I'm going to give you a little trick to solve this problem on the split.
We had just obtained here so I'm going to add this third optional argument you know to improve our model
.
Right now we're doing some model performance improvement so that's a thing that machinery scientists
do very often in their job.
So don't we will get more advanced sections on it especially when we cover cross-validation to find
the best morals selecting the best parameters but here we'll just do some simple model performance improvement
and we'll just add this control parameter and then I'm going to give you this little trick.
So the trick is to take our part library again.
So we're taking our part control here which is a function and in this function we're going to add an
argument as you can see here on this yellow rectangle.
Here we have the first argument that is men's plates and that's exactly what we're interested in.
And that's what will solve our problem because you know actually we didn't have any split here because
it just took the average.
So it's like we had no conditions on the independent variables and no splits.
So to make sure we have some splits and some conditions on the independent variables we will actually
set mini splits to 1 and that will solve the problem.
So let's try.
That's no real select this section to create a new aggressor.
So our party is already imported so I don't need to like that again.
And let's create this aggressor.
Ok done.
Perfect your aggressor created all properly.
OK.
Now let's perhaps first visualize the results to see if our model is now correct before getting to the
final verdict.
Because you know we need to validate the model now.
So I'm selecting the section and let's see where we get.
Let's cross our fingers.
Here we go.
I'm going to zoom on the plot.
And now the first word I have to say here is trap or red flag.
Right now we're just in front of a Neutra.
The model is improved.
Definitely we can definitely see that we have more than one spits here.
For example here that's a split that's another split here and here.
So OK we solved the problem of the number of splits.
That's according to what Karylle explained in the intuition to toile.
Do you think that's the real shape of a decision tree regression model.
Well because you know what Carol explained is the algorithm of decision tree regression is that by considering
the entropy in the information again it's splitting the independent variables into several intervals
.
So in the intuition tutoyer you had two independent variables so the different intervals formed some
rectangles in which you took the average of the dependent variable values.
But here since we are in one dimension that means that the algorithm would only take intervals here
of the independent variable for example that should be one interval.
And here it looks like it's the second one.
And here is the third one.
And here a fourth one.
OK.
So basically it looks like we have four conditions and for intervals that are making the splits.
But as you understood in the intuition tutorial it's taking the average in each interval.
So if it's taking the average How do you want to have this straight line here that is not horizontal
because you know what.
This isn't true aggression is doing is that in each interval it's calculating the average of the dependent
variable salaries and therefore for all the levels contained in this interval the value of the prediction
should be a constant equal to this average of the dependent variable in this interval.
And here as we can see it's not a constant you know the prediction here is not the same as the prediction
here.
So either it's considering an infinity of intervals with different constants in each of those infinite
intervals or either we have a problem here of course it's not the first option of course the decision
tree regression is not considering an infinity of intervals between this level and this level.
So it's definitely the second option.
So now do you see where the problem comes from.
Well the answer is in our regression templates because what we observe here is only due to the resolution
we picked to plot these decision tree regression results because we were actually plotting the predictions
for each of the 10 levels incremented by 1.
That means that here you know it's only plotting the predictions of the 10 salary's corresponding to
the 10 levels.
And then it's joined in the predictions by a straight line here because it had no predictions to plot
in this interval here of the inviolable level.
And the fact that it's a problem for this new non-linear regression model the decision tree model is
due to a very specific reason for the previous non-linear regression models.
We could use the code that generated this plot because the models were actually continuous.
So for example in the polynomial regression model well between these prediction and these prediction
Well it was actually almost a straight line here.
However right now we're facing a new kind of regression model.
Remember the first kind of regression model we studied was the linear regression model.
Then the second kind of regression all we saw was the non linear regression model.
And now we're facing a new kind of regression model.
It's the nonlinear and non-continuous regression model.
Indeed all the previous regression models that we saw whether there were linear are or not linear or
they were all continuous.
But here the decision tree regression model is not continuous and this is the first non-continuous machine
model we are seeing together.
And so you what is the best way to visualize non-continuous regression model.
Well as I was telling you the answer is the solution for this is in our regression template.
So let's have a look and actually we need to take the code section that visualize the regression model
results in higher resolution.
So let's take this.
And let's actually go back to a decision tree regression file and replace this code here because this
is totally not appropriate for decision tree regression model because it's a non-continuous model and
so we need to replace this code by the same.
But for the high resolution and now let's check it out.
The model is actually ready we can actually replace that by Decision Tree regression.
And now let's check it out and you will see what the real decision tree regression model looks like
in one d.
So let's do it let's select all this and execute.
And here it is.
That's what it looks like and actually it's a non-continuous model.
We should even have some strictly vertical line here you know to represent better than contiguity.
And to do this we just need to increase the resolution.
So I'm going to put up on 0 1 and you'll see that we'll get the real representation of the decision
tree regression results.
So let's do it.
Here it is now almost vertical.
And that's a clear representation of the decision true Gresham mo.
So now let's zoom on it.
And now it makes much more sense because as Carol explained based on the entropy in the information
again it splits the whole range of your independent variable into different intervals.
So here we can clearly see what intervals are the first interval is from 1 to 6.5.
The second interval is from 6.5 to 8.5.
Then the third interval is from eight point five to 9.5.
And finally the last interval is from nine point five to 10.
So there we go we can clearly see the intervals now and as Karylle explained in the intuition to Tauriel
the decision tree regression model is considering the average of the dependent variable values in each
of the intervals.
This one this one this one and this one.
So for example if we consider this interval here the average of the salaries in this interval will that's
very simple it's actually 250000.
And so for each of the level between 6.5 and 8.5 the salaries will be predicted to be $250000.
So we already know what our model will predict for our 6.5 level here.
It's going to predict 250 K.
So speaking of this prediction and now as we get the decision tree regression graphic results very well
let's actually check that the previous salary of this employee that had a 6.5 level in its previous
company is actually two hundred and fifty k let's check it out.
Let's select this line and execute.
And here it is.
Two hundred and fifty thousand.
Exactly like we predicted because we can clearly see that on this plot.
So now I just want to say two things to conclude.
The decision tree regression model is not an interesting model in one d but it can be a very interesting
and very powerful model in more dimensions.
So that's why you can use this code here for your data sets.
You have the code here that builds the model and this one here that makes a prediction.
But then you won't be able to use this code because you will have probably a lot of independent variables
and therefore a lot of dimensions that you know will give you the explanation in 2-D.
I'm giving you the explanation of one piece of that now in your mind you can perfectly represent in
your head a decision tree regression and how it works.
And now we'd like to end this tutorial by an enigma in the next section you will see around them forests
and around them for us is actually real simple it's just a team of several decision trees.
So knowing that this is the result of one tree what do you think we'll get with a team of 10 trees or
even a hundred trees or 500 trees.
The first question is do you think we'll get this shape of some stairs here.
And the second question is do you think we'll get a much more accurate prediction like a prediction
that is getting very close to the 160 K that is supposed to be the real salary.
So these are the two questions I will let you think about that.
And I look forward to giving you the solution in the next section.
Until then enjoy mission learning